The D1Q333 scheme is a vectorial scheme
that can be used for inviscid flows in dimension one.

---

**Vectorial scheme**

The D1Q333 is a vectorial scheme with one particle distribution function
for each conserved moment (the mass, the momentum, and the total energy).
Each particle distribution function is discretized with three velocities:
$0$, $\lambda$, and $-\lambda$ where $\lambda$ is the lattice velocity.

This scheme has more degrees of freedom than the D1Q222: the second-order operator corresponding to the numerical diffusion can be modified by choosing the equilibrium value of the second-order moments. However, the stability zone according to the parameters of the scheme is not easy to determine.

Two versions of this scheme are proposed: the D1Q333_0 and the D1Q333_1 that differ in their equilibrium values for the second-order moments.

---

**Parameters**

The equilibrium value of all the non-conserved moments are fixed in this version of the D1Q333.
Seven parameters are left free:

- the **lattice velocity** denoted by $\lambda$;
- the **three relaxation parameters of first-order** $s_{\rho}$ , $s_u$ , and $s_p$;
- the **three relaxation parameters of second-order** $s_{\rho x}$ , $s_{ux}$ , and $s_{px}$;
- the **additional viscosity** $\mu$ denoted by `addvisc` in the widget.

1. _The lattice velocity $\lambda$_

> The lattice velocity is defined as the ratio between the space step and the time step. This velocity must satisfy a CFL type condition to ensure the stability of the scheme.
>
> This parameter is involved in the numerical diffusion: the higher the lattice velocity, the higher the numerical diffusion.
>
> - The parameter $\lambda$ has to be greater than all the physical velocities of the problem;
> - The parameter $\lambda$ should be as small as possible while preserving the stability.

2. _The relaxation parameters of first-order $s_{\rho}$ , $s_u$ , and $s_p$_

> These three relaxation parameters are involved in the relaxation towards equilibrium for the three first-order non-conserved moments of the scheme. These parameters should take real values between $0$ and $2$.
>
> These parameters play also a role in the numerical diffusion: $s_{\rho}$ (_resp._ $s_u$ , $s_p$) appears in the numerical diffusion operator of the mass (_resp._ momentum, energy) conservation through the Henon parameter.
>
> - Increasing the values of the parameters $s_{\rho}$ , $s_u$ , and $s_p$ decreases the numerical diffusion;
> - Decreasing the values improves the stability.

3. _The relaxation parameters of second-order $s_{\rho x}$ , $s_{ux}$ , and $s_{px}$_

> These three relaxation parameters are involved in the relaxation towards equilibrium for the three second-order non-conserved moments of the scheme. These parameters should take real values between $0$ and $2$.
>
> These parameters do not play a role in the second-order numerical diffusion but in the stability. A good choice is often to take these three parameters equal to 1 except when the pressure can be closed to 0.

4. _The additional viscosity paramter $\mu$_

In the widget, this parameter is denoted by `addvisc`. It is used to modify the equilibrium values of the second-order moments by a relaxation toward the equilibrium values of the $D_1Q_{222}$. As the $D_1Q_{222}$ is robust and stable, the effect of this modification is a stabilization of the scheme by modifying the structure of the numerical diffusion.

---

**How to choose the parameters ?**

Even if the equivalent equations give only an asymptotic representation of the scheme, the structure of the second-order operator (corresponding to a numerical diffusion) is very helpfull for selecting the several parameters.
The complete structure can be computed using the tab `Equivalent equations`.

For each relaxation parameter $s \in \lbrace s_{\rho}, s_u, s_p \rbrace$ , the Henon parameter is defined by $\sigma = 1/s - 1/2$ and the amplitude of the associated numerical diffusion is given by $\Delta x \lambda\sigma$ , where $\Delta x$ is the space step.

> &rarr; the lattice velocity $\lambda$ has to be large enough to ensure that the second-order operator is positive (in the sense of the parabolic system);
>
> &rarr; the relaxation parameters of first-order should be chosen as close to $2$ as possible to minimise the effect of the numerical diffusion;
>
> &rarr; the relaxation parameters of second-order do not play a role in the numerical diffusion: a good compromise is to choose a value close to $1$.

---

_See the tabs `Linear Stability` and `Parametric Study` for more informations_.
