The D1Q3L2 scheme is a LBM scheme
with two levels of internal energy
that can be used for inviscid flows in dimension one.

---

**Scheme with internal energy levels**

The D1Q3L2 is a scheme with two particle distribution functions, one for each internal energy level. The two internal energy levels are scaled by $\lambda^2$ ($\lambda$ is the lattice velocity) and the difference between their values is parametrized by $\alpha$.

Each particle distribution function is discretized with three velocities:
$0$, $\lambda$, and $-\lambda$ where $\lambda$ is the lattice velocity.

This scheme has exactly the same number of degrees of freedom than the D1Q222 but the second-order operator corresponding to the numerical diffusion is different: its contribution in the mass conservation equation vanishes.

---

**Parameters**

The equilibrium value of all the non-conserved moments are fixed.
Five parameters are left free:

- the **lattice velocity** denoted by $\lambda$;
- the **three relaxation parameters** $s_{\rho}$ , $s_u$ , and $s_p$ ;
- the **difference between the levels of internal energy** $\alpha$.

1. _The lattice velocity $\lambda$_

> The lattice velocity is defined as the ratio between the space step and the time step. This velocity must satisfy a CFL type condition to ensure the stability of the scheme.
>
> This parameter is involved in the numerical diffusion: the higher the lattice velocity, the higher the numerical diffusion.
>
> - The parameter $\lambda$ has to be greater than all the physical velocities of the problem;
> - The parameter $\lambda$ should be as small as possible while preserving the stability;

2. _The relaxation parameters $s_{\rho}$ , $s_u$ , and $s_p$_

> These three parameters should take real values between $0$ and $2$. Two of these three relaxation parameters ($s_u$ and $s_p$) are involved in the relaxation towards equilibrium for the associated non-conserved moments.

3. _The difference of internal energy levels $\alpha$_

> The parameter $\alpha$ is involved in the second-order operator (the numerical diffusion), more precisely in the conservation equation of the energy.

---

**Warning**

Choose the several parameters to ensure the stability of this scheme is not an easy task!

---

**How to choose the parameters ?**

Even if the equivalent equations give only an asymptotic representation of the scheme, the structure of the second-order operator (corresponding to a numerical diffusion) is very helpfull for selecting the several parameters.
The complete structure can be computed using the tab `Equivalent equations`.

For each relaxation parameter $s \in \lbrace s_u, s_p \rbrace$ , the Henon parameter is defined by $\sigma = 1/s - 1/2$ and the amplitude of the associated numerical diffusion is given by $\Delta x \lambda\sigma$ , where $\Delta x$ is the space step.

The second-order operator of the mass conservation equation vanishes: the Henon parameter associated to the mass does not play a role in the numerical diffusion.

> &rarr; the lattice velocity $\lambda$ has to be large enough to ensure that the second-order operator is positive (in the sense of the parabolic system);
>
> &rarr; the relaxation parameters should be chosen as close to $2$ as possible to minimise the effect of the numerical diffusion.

---

_See the tabs `Linear Stability` and `Parametric Study` for more informations_.
